Manual for 3DViewer v1.0

The program was developed as an educational project in Shcool21 from Cber.

The program allows you to view models with the *.obj file extension. Per display
models responds to OpenGL. The movement and movement of vertices is due to affine
transformations. After transforming the vertices, their new coordinates are passed to rendering
in OpenGL. Rendering with OpenGL is done on the CPU (shaders are not applied).
The program allows you to take a screenshot and everything that will be visible in the display area
models will be saved to the selected directory.
The program allows you to make a gif-animation and everything that is visible in the display area.
Model will be saved to the selected directory.



Program features:

The program opens files with *.obj extension.
Displays the model in the viewer window.
Scales the model.

Moves the model along the axes of the coordinate system.

Rotates the model about the axes of the coordinate system.

Allows you to customize the image: projection view; thickness, type and color of lines;
size, type and color of vertices; background color.

Saves the image displayed in the model display area in *.jpg format and *.bmp.

Saves a static or dynamic *.gif image with a duration of
animation 5 seconds, with a frame rate in gif-animation 0.1 seconds.

Stores user-selected display settings for the model.



Open file button

When the button is pressed, a menu is called to select a file with the *.obj extension.
When you select a file and click on the open button, the parser is launched, which can
handle some errors. If any error is detected, the field remains unchanged.


Text field

The text field contains information about the open file. This field displays information:
- file name with extension;
- the number of vertices and edges;

Save as button

This function allows you to take a snapshot of the model display area and save it to
the selected directory.

Button Create .gif

This feature allows you to create GIF animations by capturing snapshots of the model display area.
every 0.1 seconds for 5 seconds. At the end of 5 seconds, all frames will be created and
the program will save them as a single *.gif file to the previously selected directory.

Projection selection drop-down menu

This menu allows you to select the projection type between central and parallel projections.

Scale

Changes the display of the model by increasing the scale by the appropriate amount.

Moving

A move shifts the model along the corresponding axis.

Rotation

Rotation causes the model to rotate by the appropriate angle around the selected axis.
You can rotate the model both with the help of the spinbox and with the mouse.

Setting the linetype and vertex

Lines. The line type defines the type of line display in the model display area. line type
may be: absent, solid and dotted.

Setting the line and vertex size

The line size specifies the width of the line in pixels.

Color setting

By clicking on one of the buttons, you can adjust the color of the corresponding element of the program.




Developers:

Artem Komissarov - Kledtall - team leader

Klim Anikeev - julieanb

Dmitry Komarov - chanrosa